---
name: Real-Time Grid Frequency Stabilization through PLC-Driven Inverter Control with Integrated Battery Energy Storage System #Change this to the name of your presentation
number: PED3-943 #Change this to your group number, e.g. TEPE-700
categories:
  - Technical presentation #Don't delete this
---

The increased penetration of renewable energy sources has led to new challenges in the management and operational security of the grid, due to their variability and nonsynchronous nature. Battery Energy Storage Systems, controlled by a grid-connected inverter could represent a way to enhance grid stabilization operations. In particular, BESSs utilization in frequency stabilization is being widely explored in recent times, in order to provide new frequency control ancillary services. However, for a large-scale implementation of such systems it is necessary to conduct wider research on the control algorithm, to make it more robust and efficient. In this paper, a new inverter control to provide ancillary services to the grid via BESS has been investigated. More specifically, a Bachmann PLC has been used to perform smart measurement of grid parameters and give real-time input to the cascade control of the inverter, which finally lead the BESS to inject or draw the correct amount of active power to or from the grid. The system has been tested and experimental results confirmed that such a system could achieve flexible, scalable and fast-response grid frequency stabilization. This research demonstrates the BESSs’ crucial role in grid management operations towards converter dominated grids.