---
name: Design and Development of an Electronic Speed Controller for Unmanned Aircraft Systems #Change this to the name of your presentation
number: PED3-941 #Change this to your group number, e.g. TEPE-700
---
Aurea Avionics S.L specializes in Mini and Micro UAVs (1kg to 5kg) for surveillance tasks. The company strives for independence by developing its own subsystems and components, including brushless DC motors (BLDC) critical for UAV operation in propulsion and payloads like gimbals. These motors require precise control through Electronic Speed Controllers (ESCs), and although commercial ESCs are available, a custom ESC could better meet Aurea’s specific size, weight, and power needs. The project’s goal is to develop a proof-of-concept ESC system for Aurea Avionics, focusing on both hardware and software to match the company’s requirements.

Key objectives include designing the ESC hardware, programming a closed-loop control system for a BLDC on a microcontroller, and experimentally validating the hardware and control strategies. The project aims to create a flexible, robust ESC system adaptable to various scenarios and motors, using open-source tools and accessible components when possible. Areas covered include power requirements, ESC types and operations, impact of wide band-gap semiconductors , field-oriented control, simulation, and thermal and EMI analysis. Resources like simulation software (LTspice), hardware (STM32), and open-source tools will support the project.

