---
name: Lifetime Analysis of Gallium Nitride Devices in Wireless Chargers for Electric Vehicles
number: PED3-940
categories:
  - Session 1A
---

The expansion of the Electric Vehicle (EV) market in recent years, driven by the need for sustainable solutions to reduce transportation-related greenhouse gas emissions, is evident. However, EVs face challenges, particularly in charging availability and convenience. Wireless battery charging offers an attractive solution, enabling reliable vehicle connection to the charging station without human intervention. To achieve efficient energy transfer, highly efficient power electronics operating at high frequencies are required. Gallium Nitride (GaN) devices have emerged playing a pivotal role in wireless charging due to their superior frequency and efficiency. Nevertheless, assessing GaN device longevity under real-world conditions is crucial. The constant charging and discharging cycles lead to repetitive thermal stress, potentially causing wear-out mechanisms. Here, the state-of-the-art of GaN devices, failure mechanisms, and reliability testing through power cycling, HTGB, HTRB, and H3TRB are covered. By analysing GaN device performance via simulation, current-based cycles are obtained. A custom-designed PCB setup for accelerated lifetime analysis is used to assess GaN. Test results will identify stressors leading to degradation and failure of GaN devices, providing insights for improving wireless charging reliability. This contributes to enhancing long-term EV infrastructure reliability by optimizing power electronics for more robust and efficient charging.